# Deadalus v0.1.0 beta

More like a absolute minimum to showcase functionality for designing own airfoils. In this version program is stable in Airfoil Designer, and the functionaliy of Wing Workbench is kept as a teaser raher than function.  Project is available at the old name AirFLOW which is no longer the case as "Deadalus" will be an official projects name.

## Airfoil Designer
Airfoil Designer allows to create own profiles using parameters. Parameters are displayed inside a table and using arrows user can change the value. Nominal delta is 0.1 unit but holding SHIFT unit is 1 and CTRL unit is 0.01. 
Inside airfoil designer user can create / delete / save or export airoils. Airfoils are displayed in tree menu using it's name. Airofil is displayed in MatPlotLib viewport providing:

1. Airfoil geometry
2. Control Points
3. Construction polyline

For user a BAR MENU is available.
### BAR MENU
Provides really basic functionality

FILE:
- NEW: creates new file by erasing stored data
- OPEN: opens saved project
- SAVE: saves a project (saving convention is changed since v0.3.0)
- PREFERENCES: opens preferences window

EDIT functions are:
- CREATE: creates a new airfoil
- APPEND: appends already existing airfoil from dedicated file format
- SAVE: saves created airfoil to dedicated file format
- DELETE: deletes unnecessary airfoil
- EXPORT: exports an airfoil to DXF format
- FLIP AIRFOIL: Changes Suction Side with Pressure Side by flipping airfoil horizontally
- RENAME: changes the name of an airfoil
- EDIT DESCRIPTION: changes the description of an airfoil

VIEW:
- SHOW REFERENCE: allows to show reference from selig format airfoil (X,Y coordinates)

MODULE:
- WING MODULE: open wing module (beta)

HELP:
- ABOUT: shows about 

## Wing Workbench
Allows user to create 3D wing using established airfoils. Module hasn't been tested, and requires a lot of additional works. But has been left as a beta feature (teaser) of what is yet to come. Wing Workbench has tree menu of objects, OpenGL 3D viewport and table for parameters of objects. 2 cylinders represent wheels for Formula Student puropse. There are 3 types of objects:

1. Components: most general objects, root of design which sets the origin center. e.g. Front Wing
2. Wing: part of component having acctual shape, e.g. Main Wing / Ruther / Stabilizer
3. Segment: part of wing which holds the shape, e.g. Ribs of Stabilizer

As in Airfoil designer bar menu allows for basic interactions. In some cases functions are similar.

FILE:
- NEW: creates new file by erasing stored data
- OPEN: opens saved project
- SAVE: saves a project (saving convention is changed since v0.3.0)
- EXPORT: it's a placeholder


EDIT functions are:
- ADD COMPONENT
- ADD WING
- ADD SEGMENT
- PREFERENCES: opens preferences window

VIEW:
- CHANGE PERSPECTIVE - doesn't work (placeholder)

MODULE:
- AIRFOIL MODULE - open airfoil module

## Final note
Please be forgiving and stay positive :D