# Deadalus v0.3.0beta

Small rebranding to _Deadalus_. Less corporate name. As it is well know Deadalus (greek mythos hero) was the designer and the first person to create wing. Now you can do so!
**Possible STEP file export!**

## Program
From v0.3.0 version **new format of saved project** is introduced. Every object is now inside only one file, and connections via ID are between object ensuring correct object assignment on project load-up.

**Preferences** are now **adjusted** to the newest settings introducing more customization for Airfoil Designer and Wing Designer. Units setcion is introced, but only one setting is for now available. Also new way of setting program performance is introduced. 

**User manual** is **now available** and will be developed to help with program handling.

New bar dropdown _Program_ is introduced. It stores functions: **About**, **User Manual**, **Preferences**

## Airfoil Designer
Inside airfoil designer you can create an airfoil out of 4 splines representing: leading edge **LE**, trailing edge **TE**, pressure side **PS**, and suction side **SS**.
### Viewport
Huge chagne in viewport as it is now using OpenGL to visualize created airfoils. 
1. **Grid**: now grid is being displayed which adjusts depending on the zoom level. It can be turned on/off inside preferences/airfoil
2. **Ruler**: ruler with ticks is being displayed with unit and value. It also adjusts to the level of zoom. It can be turned no/off inside preferences/airfoil
3. **Control points**: points which define the splines. It reacts to the parameters reaction. It can be turned no/off inside preferences/airfoil
4. **Construction**: connects control points using dashed line. It can be turned no/off inside preferences/airfoil
5. **Wireframe**: shows established spline of created airfoils. Each spline has its own distingushing color. It can be turned no/off inside preferences/airfoil.

### Objects list

Visible in top right corner of the airfoil designer window. Shows all the airfoils inside the current project. Table shows parameters such as:
1. **Name**
2. **Last modification** date
3. **Creation date**
4. **Description**

### Parameters table
Shows all the required parameters to create wing. Parameters are displayed in columns:

1. **Parameter** - name
2. **Value** - with buttons to adjust input and keyboard-input
3. **Nominal** - value before paremeters adjustement

### Reference 
Program allows to sshow reference from .dat/.txt file which uses Selig format data, e.g.:
`Name: NACAXXXX`
`1.0000  0.0000`
`... ...`
`X-coordinate Y-coordinate`

Reference is than displayed as grey airfoil behind main airfoil.

## Wing Designer
Wing designer as before consits of Object Tree Menu, Viewpot and Parameter Table. **Wing created inside this module can now be fully exported to the .step file format.** It feel like this is the most crucial change is whole program. So far .STEP export is tested on single wing G0-G0 connection (4x2 uv grid), G1-G0 connection (4x3 uv grid) and G1-G1 connection (4x4 uv grid). It wars for multi-segment wings. Not tested yet for multi wing components. 

### Object tree
Object tree stores information about objects and it's parents. As previously 3 types of objects are available: **Component**, **Wing**, **Segment**. Only change is that, when new segment is added it now shift 0.1 unit to the side to avoid overlaping. User can now add and delete objects.

### Viewport
3D viewport was recreated using OpenGL. Now user can rotate, pan and zoom as in typical CAD software. Inside viewport user can see:

1. **Grid**: on XZ plane to give user a reference of space. It can be turned no/off inside preferences/airfoil.
2. **Control Points**: show construction points of UV grids required for NURBS surfaces. It can be turned no/off inside preferences/airfoil.
3. **Construction**: Shows connection between UV grid points. It can be turned no/off inside preferences/airfoil.
4. **Wireframe**: Shows wireframe of 3D object. It can be turned no/off inside preferences/airfoil.
5. **Surfaces**: Shows NURBS surfaces created out of UV grids

Using _geomdl_ for establishing NURBS surface program can be laggy when having a lot of surfaces!

### Parameter Table
Shows parameters of objects. More in sure manual.

# Final note
Program should be more stable than previous v0.1.0 release. But feel free to notify me if anything doesnt work as expected. Have a great time creating something new!
